Minutes from 170th OpenVDB TSC meeting, May 23rd, 2023

Attendees: *Jeff* L., *Dan* B., *Rich* J., *Ken* M., *Greg* H.
           *Andre* P.

Regrets:
Attendees: *Dan* B., *Nick* A.

Additional Attendees: None

Agenda:

1) Confirm quorum
2) Secretary
3) Forum
4) Python Bindings
5) Hollow VDB
6) UUID Update
7) ASWF Annual Meeting
8) VDB Merge Max
9) Next meeting

------------

1) Confirm quorum

Quorum is present.

2) Secretary

Secretary is Andre P.

3) Forum

1618

NanoVDB Issue.

4) NanoVDB

Constructing grid from points.

   give you keys that you can sort using radix sort, which is very fast on the gpu. if you know how many nodes you need, you can allocate the buffer. now you can do a cuda malloc. and the challenge.

one thing that we've been discussed many times, is that if you see the implementation of the nodes, it puts constraints on what the value type should be. ken has discussion with dan about making. 

value accessor caches tree traversals. if you introduce a new thing that you need to accelerate, you need to call getvalueandcache. they are implemented in the tree. 

ken is showing a way to construct grid from points.

probevalueandcache:

 - getandcache: takes ijk, accessor, and any arguments. the logic of this method has 1 more template argument. 

if there is no child, then it calls itself.

 - get and set does not take an accessor

probevalue

it's extendable & compact. 

valueonindexgrid and valueindexgrid. the payload itself lives as a sidecar, lives in a separate buffer. if all you have is the bitmask, how do you compute the offset? the node itself stores 1 index, the beginning of what you associate to that leaf node. so you store 1 uint64_t. then find the correct offset is computing how many unbits you have below me. but the insight is to do a prefix sum in chunk of 64 bits. they are crammed into member data that were already there. find the word that the mask belongs to. and how many bits there are below me. there are no looping. it is O(1). it is very fast. there are no branches, and  it is important.


5) VDB 11
hole removal stuff come in as a pr before siggraph. that's a very exciting new feature. ken has argued it's a feature. 

5) Next meeting

Next meeting is on May 2nd, 2023. 2pm-3pm EDT.
